---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/core-rules/chapter-5-items-and-crafting/inventory-and-carry-capacity/slots/"}
---

A [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Inventory and Carry Capacity/Slots\|Slot]] is a unit of measurement to determine how much a [[Core Rules/Chapter 3 ~ Character Basics/Character\|Character]] can hold. It represents the size and weight of the [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|item]] in question.

A heavy [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|item]] that is small may still take up 1 [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Inventory and Carry Capacity/Slots\|Slot]] while a bulky [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|item]] that is light will also take up 1 slot.

[[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|Items]] can take up [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Inventory and Carry Capacity/Slots\|Slots]] as follows:

<0 [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Inventory and Carry Capacity/Slots\|Slot]] sized: These [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|Items]] are so inconsequential that 6 count as a 0 [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Inventory and Carry Capacity/Slots\|Slot]] [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|item]] or 36 as a 1 [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Inventory and Carry Capacity/Slots\|Slot]] [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|Item]]. Depending on the [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|Item]], the [[Core Rules/Chapter 2 ~ Foundation/GM\|GM]] may determine a [[Core Rules/Chapter 3 ~ Character Basics/Character\|Character]] can store more [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|Items]] than this amount.
0 [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Inventory and Carry Capacity/Slots\|Slot]] sized: These [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|Items]] are negligible in size and/or weight. 6, 0 [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Inventory and Carry Capacity/Slots\|Slot]] sized [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|Items]] takes up 1 slot.
1 [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Inventory and Carry Capacity/Slots\|Slot]] sized: These [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|Items]] are of average size and/or weight and can easily be held in 1 hand.
2 [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Inventory and Carry Capacity/Slots\|Slot]] sized: These [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|Items]] are above average in size and/or weight and requires 2 hands to be held.
3 [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Inventory and Carry Capacity/Slots\|Slot]] sized: These [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|Items]] are extremely large and/or heavy. Giving 1 [[Core Rules/Chapter 3 ~ Character Basics/Ranks\|Rank]] of the [[Core Rules/Chapter 4 ~ General Mechanics/Condition List/Slowed\|Slowed]] condition to any [[Core Rules/Chapter 3 ~ Character Basics/Character\|Character]] carrying it.
4 [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Inventory and Carry Capacity/Slots\|Slot]] sized: These [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|Items]] can only be lifted temporarily. A [[Core Rules/Chapter 3 ~ Character Basics/Character\|Character]] lifting an [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|item]] such as this has the [[Immobilized\|Immobilized]] [[Core Rules/Chapter 4 ~ General Mechanics/Conditions\|condition]] if they do not have [[Core Rules/Chapter 7 ~ Events and Actions/Basic Actions/Help\|Help]] from another character.

### Size Changes
The amount of space an [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|item]] takes up increases or decreases based on the [[Core Rules/Chapter 6 ~ Maps and Areas/Sizes\|size]] of the Character.

As a [[Core Rules/Chapter 3 ~ Character Basics/Character\|Character]] increases in [[Core Rules/Chapter 6 ~ Maps and Areas/Sizes\|Sizes]] beyond Medium, the [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Inventory and Carry Capacity/Slots\|Slot]] size of an [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|item]] decreases by 1 for every size increase.
As a [[Core Rules/Chapter 3 ~ Character Basics/Character\|Character]] decreases in [[Core Rules/Chapter 6 ~ Maps and Areas/Sizes\|Sizes]] below Medium, the [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Inventory and Carry Capacity/Slots\|Slot]] size of an [[Core Rules/Chapter 5 ~ Items and Crafting/Items\|item]] increases by 1 for every size decrease.